# Vine Trimming Dataset
Dataset of images of vines before and after trimming. Captured by a Microsoft Azure Kinect DK in June 2022.

## Dataset description

The dataset is designed to test automatic algorithms for measuring changes in the canopy of grapevine plants using natural, on-field images. To this aim, two segments of rows in a commercial vineyard were monitored with an RGB-D camera ([Microsoft Azure Kinect DK](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/kinect-dk/)) before and after a trimming practice.

The dataset consists of 36 captures, acquired in the Conte Spagnoletti Zeuli vineyard in Andria, Italy (41° 14' 24" N, 16° 11' 37,998" E), where the Vitis Vinifera, cultivar "Nero di Troia" (red wine grape variety) is grown. 

The data was acquired by a Microsoft Azure Kinect, on a tripod fixed at a variable distance between 1.5 and 2 m to the row, on June 23rd, 2022. 

18 images were captured from the east row and the other 18 from the west row in a time range between 8:29 and 8:43 in the morning (local time). For each row, nine images were captured before trimming and nine other images from the same plants after trimming. 






The camera's intrinsic parameters, as generated by the MS Azure Kinect SDK (v1.4.1), are in the *Camera Intrinsics.txt* file. Translations and rotations move the color geometry to the depth one.


## Acknowledgments
This paper was funded by the "TEBAKA - TErritorial BAsic Knowledge Acquisition" research project (MUR PON Agrifood Program, Grant No. ARS01\_00815). 

The authors would like to thank the "Conte Spagnoletti Zeuli" farm in Andria (Italy) for hosting the experiments.

## Credits

Annaclaudia Bono, Roberto Marani and Tiziana D'Orazio performed the experiments. Roberto Marani implemented the code for gathering data from the Microsoft Azure Kinect DK.

Contact person: Roberto Marani - [roberto.marani@stiima.cnr.it](mailto:roberto.marani@stiima.cnr.it)

National Research Council of Italy (CNR), Institute of Intelligent Systems and Technologies for Advanced Manufacturing (STIIMA), via Amendola 122 D/O, 70126, Bari, Italy


## Cite this dataset

A. Bono, R. Marani, C. Guaragnella, T. D’Orazio, "Biomass Characterization with Semantic Segmentation Models and Point Cloud Analysis for Precision Viticulture," *submitted to Computers and Electronics in Agriculture*, 2023.
